[MUSIC]
So I'm just going to walk
through an example of some code
that manipulates a servo
from the Raspberry Pi.
I'll go through it step by step so
you can see how it works.
So this is going to be some
actually relatively simple code.
It's dumb code, but
what it would do is make the servo
scan from left to right back to left.
That's all it'll do.
Over a period it's kind of slow scan.
Slower than that actually, but
that's all this code is going to do, so
I just want to show you this example,
just walk through each step.
Okay, so we start at the top.
We start by,
now this is a throwback actually to
last course when we were talking about the
general purpose IO and the Raspberry Pi.
We have to import Raspberry Pi.GPIO.
So we import the GPIO library just so we
can manipulate the general purpose pent.
Now first thing we do is we
say GPIO.setmode(GPIO.BOARD).
Remember, that's the board pin numbering.
So the pin numbers are two pin numbers you
can use, and you gotta select which one.
There's the board pin numbering, which
we're using, but there's also the broad
com pin numbering, which we're not using,
and that would be GPIO.BCM.
We're not doing that.
We're doing .BOARD.
So we set the mode, then we set up.
We call GPIO.setup
making pin 12 an output.
12,GPIO.OUT, because that's where we're
going to drive the post with modulating
signal.
That's going to be connected to
the signal input of the server.
We're assuming that we're using the wiring
that we saw in the last lecture.
Now, then we say pulse
with modulation.start.
That start method it just starts
a pulse with modulated signal,
starts generating one
on the appropriate pin.
In this case pin 12.
Now, we gave it an argument 0.
That's the duty cycle at the beginning,
so the duty cycle is from 0 to 100.
So 0 duty cycle means
it's low all the time.
So actually this just puts out a 0
all the time but we'll change that.
So then we've got two loops.
For each i in range 100 is the first loop.
So what this is doing is it's
iterating through the duty cycle.
So duty cycle goes from 0 to 100.
Actually in this case instead
we're saying i in range 10,
it's going to go from 0 to 99, so it won't
quite reach 100, but that's close enough.
Maybe i should range 101, but whatever.
So for i in range 100, so
each pass through i is going to be 0,
then 1, then 2, and so on.
So pwm.GhangeDutyCycle i, so that just
changed the duty cycle to i, which means
in the servo it rotates it a little bit.
So it starts off at 1, then it goes to 2,
then 3, then 4 rotating it all the way
through once it gets to 100 or
99 it's basically at a 180 degree turn.
So and I put a small sleep time in
between in each iteration right, so
I change the duty cycle rotate a little
bit wait 0.1 seconds then rotate it again,
wait 0.1 seconds and so on.
So this is going to do a sweep that first
loop just as a sweep from left to right.
Now, the next loop is actually very
similar except this time the range is
different ranged from 100 down to 0, and
I gave this third argument negative 1.
So negative 1 that third argument to
the range function is the step, okay?
It means what change you're going to
make to the number every pass throw.
So in the first range in that
first loop I just say range 100.
With that it just assumes
you want to increment.
You want to add one, but
in the second loop I want to decrement.
I want to subtract 1.
So I have the save that, so
I say 0 comma, so I say 100 comma 0.
So from 100 to 0 and the third argument
I say negative 1 to tell it look,
every pass through you
should decrement this.
So it starts off at 100,
then 99, then 98, and so on.
So this a range, same range,
but in the opposite order, and
this time I just say post
modulation.change duty cycle i.
Again, same thing.
So the duty cycle starts off at 99,
which is basically 180 degrees, sorry.
It started at 100, which is a 180 degrees,
then it goes to 99, 98, 97.
I put the same sleep in between, so
it slowly sweeps the other way, and
that's all that this code does.
Now, if I wanted to when you
write embedded code you almost
always put it in an infinite loop because
what this would do is it would scan to
the left then scan to the right and
then it would be done, right?
And it would never do anything again.
It is much more common with embedded
systems to have them live, right?
Continually doing something.
So if I were to do that
I could take this and
put a wild true around both for
loops, right?
So I could say wild true and
indent the for loops into that,
and then it would just scan left,
scan right, scan left,
scan right forever as long
as it received power.
I didn't do that so the way this
code is is it will scan left once,
scan right once and
that'd be the end of that.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]